{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Note for Annotating:
\f1\b0 \ulnone \
There are certain behaviors that only occur due to an object. For example, drinking can only happen if the mouse is next to the drinking spout. Same applies for portholes, or any interaction with the ball. These behaviors are considered location-constrained, which are later separated from the regular behaviors. This is important to keep in mind because when two behaviors overlap, it impacts how you should annotate. \
\
If a regular behavior occurs during a location-constrained behavior (for example, let\'92s say the mouse is rearing while on the ball), this should be directly recorded in BORIS. However, if a location-constrained behavior overlaps with a location-constrained behavior (for example, the mouse is drinking while on the ball), this should be recorded into a spreadsheet, with the behavior, and the time at which it occurs. The behavior that happens first should be recorded in BORIS. So if the mouse was already on the ball before drinking, in BORIS, the interaction with ball is noted. In the spreadsheet, the drinking is recorded. Same goes for regular behaviors that overlap. \
\

\f0\b \ul Starting On BORIS:
\f1\b0 \ulnone \
1. Select New Project\
2. For the pop up:\
\

\f0\b Under Information:
\f1\b0 \
	- Project name can be the mouse that you are annotating; this can typically be determined through the video name, but if you\'92re not sure, you can also just name it the video that you will be annotating or just ask me.\
\

\f0\b Under Ethnogram:
\f1\b0 \
	- Click \'93Import behaviors from a BORIS project\'94\
	- Click on the file that I sent you + select all -  this should load in all the behaviors that you need\

\f0\b Under Subject:
\f1\b0 \
	- Click add subject\
	- Double click under subject name + give it the mouse name - again, if you\'92re not sure what mouse it is, feel free to ask me!\
\

\f0\b Click OK
\f1\b0 \
\
5. This should lead you to a window with all the behaviors and subject loaded in. Go to the toolbar at the top and under \'93Observation\'94, press \'93New Observation\'94\
	- Under add media, load in the video that you\'92re planning on annotating\
	- The observation ID is up to you, but I usually name it the mouse name\
\
6. You\'92re ready to go! Sometimes the video doesn\'92t load up immediately, but if you click a couple of buttons at the top along the toolbar, it will eventually come up. When annotating I like to go frame by frame. This mode can be entered by clicking on the button that looks like a film roll. \
\
From there, you can annotate simply by clicking on the arrow keys, which goes by frame. Once you see a behavior, you can use the shortcut keys (each behavior has a key associated with it - if it\'92s uppercase, you have to make the key uppercase by either doing caps lock or shift). }