{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh18000\viewkind0
\deftab560
\pard\pardeftab560\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf0 Notes on Annotations\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 CAF42
\f1\b0\fs24 \ulnone \

\f0\b 00:01:35.733 - 00:01:36.733: Playing w/ Box\
00:01:36.933 - 00:01:38.000: Playing w/ Box
\f1\b0 \
These two annotations are not necessary. While the mouse does briefly turn towards the box, I see no physical contact made. In situations where the mouse is not climbing the box but is interacting with it, typically the box still moves, which is indicative of playing. Here, the mouse barely skims the box.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 00:03:22.867 - 00:03:24.467: Playing w/ Box\
00:04:00.200 - 00:04:01.400: Playing w/ Box\
00:04:27.000 - 00:04:30.667: Playing w/ Box
\f1\b0 \
I\'92m not sure if there\'92s some misalignment or another systemic issue, but these three annotations do not correspond to any interaction with the box. In some of these intervals, the mouse is actually grooming. If there is no system issue, then I want to emphasize that while the mouse is near the box, it makes no physical contact with it in any of these intervals.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 CAF99
\f1\b0\fs24 \ulnone \

\f0\b 00:01:07.933 - 00:01:10.467: Chewing
\f1\b0 \
The mouse does not appear to be chewing, but more importantly, it hasn\'92t made any interaction with any food material, whether that be the pellets, or in other cases, the food gel. Chewing is only applicable when the mouse is eating either the pellet or food  gel. A reminder that this is a location-constrained behavior. \
\

\f0\b 00:04:08.767 - 00:04:22.333: Digging
\f1\b0 \
I think I mentioned this in my other notes, but the mouse is interacting with the nesting material, which would therefore categorize this behavior as nesting. Again, digging and nesting are very similar actions; however, nesting is location-constrained (any interaction with nesting material), whereas digging is not. \
\

\f0\b 00:04:24.067 - 00:04:26.367: Digging
\f1\b0 \
I\'92m not sure why you put digging here when you already correctly put down nesting. Maybe you meant to note the grooming, which is not annotated? Either way, nesting is the only annotations that applies here. At the times in which you put digging, the mouse is grooming, which should also be annotated. \
\

\f0\b 00:06:03.567 - 00:06:11.033: Digging
\f1\b0 \
This is not digging. I might not even put this down as nesting as the movement is so brief and contained. There is little movement of the nest. Still, if I were to annotate this behavior, it would be nesting due to the location of the mouse..\
\

\f0\b 00:07:18.200 - 00:07:22.833: Nesting
\f1\b0 \
There is no nesting. You put down grooming, which does occur, but the mouse does not make a digging motion, nor does it interact with the nest in any substantial manner.\
\

\f0\b 00:07:23.767 - 00:07:27.667: Digging
\f1\b0 \
I think I see a pattern with your digging annotations. During these intervals, the mouse is rocking back and forth, which can look like digging. The way to determine if it is is to check if its paws or snout are physically moving another object. Digging is an active behavior where the mouse is pawing at the woodchips. I would not annotate this interval as anything as the mouse is twitching at best. The same goes for your other digging annotations. If the mouse is in the middle of nesting material and it makes digging movements, it is nesting. Any other case is digging. Digging typically constitutes a moving of the paws or use of the snout and is not a simple back and forth of the body. \
\
I highly recommend going back and reviewing all your digging annotations under these guidelines \'97 your nesting annotations all look good. I don\'92t want to keep repeating the same thing, but if you have any questions, feel free to ask!\
\

\f0\b\fs28 \ul CAF106
\f1\b0\fs24 \ulnone \

\f0\b 00:00:13.033 - 0:00:15.067: Digging
\f1\b0 \
The mouse is out of frame in this interval, so I\'92m not sure where digging comes from.\
\

\f0\b 00:27:17.100 - 00:27:26.333: Nesting
\f1\b0 \
There is no nest material in this mouse\'92s enclosure. Additionally, the mouse is not exhibiting any digging movement.\
\
All nesting annotations for this video should be removed. If the mouse is exhibiting digging behavior, it should be annotated as such.\

\f0\b \
00:35:39.233 - 00:35:41.600: Stretching
\f1\b0 \
Stretching is a very rare behavior (I don\'92t think we\'92ve actually annotated any stretching across multiple videos), but this is definitely a fairly weird behavior. With movements like this, definitely recommend reaching out because there aren\'92t any annotations that properly describe this. Aidan should be happy to look over it and discuss what it should be categorized as!\
\

\f0\b 00:43:50.633 - 00:43:51.400: Porthole Interaction
\f1\b0 \
The mouse (CAF106) is nowhere near the porthole in this interval. You might be annotating the behavior of the other mouse, which you should not do. If there\'92s another mouse in a different enclosure in frame, please ignore it. Annotations should be for the labeled mouse \'97 in this case, CAF106. The labeled mouse is the one where the camera is pointed at.\
\

\f0\b 00:45:03.000 - 00:45:03.433: Playing w/ Box
\f1\b0 \
There is no box in this enclosure?\
\

\f0\b\fs28 \ul CAF34
\f1\b0\fs24 \ulnone \

\f0\b 00:01:52.933 - 00:01:54.333: Porthole Interaction
\f1\b0 \
The mouse is not near the porthole.\
\

\f0\b 00:01:59.467 - 00:02:03.067: Locomotion
\f1\b0 \
You should start this annotation earlier as the mouse begins moving earlier. \
\

\f0\b 00:02:46.400 - 00:02:47.933: Playing w/ Box
\f1\b0 \
Be careful with box and ball annotations. The mouse is playing with the ball in this interval. This applies to the rest of your annotations. The mouse is interacting with the ball, not the box. Please review!\
\
\
\
\
\
}